CONSULTANCY AGREEMENT BETWEEN
CONSULTANT and COMPANY PRIVATE LIMITED

This Consultancy Agreement (“Agreement”) is made and effective from Seventeenth (17th) day of September 2018.

BEETWEEN:	__________ (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Consultant’), an individual residing at: ________
AND:	_______ (hereinafter called as ‘the Company’), with its registered office at: _____ (CIN:_____)

 
WHEREAS, the Company is engaged in the business of Software publishing, consultancy and supply and is carrying on its activities in India; and
WHEREAS, the Company, as part of its business, has decided to build WORK DESC for one of its client (hereinafter referred to as ‘the First Client’); and
WHEREAS, the Company requires the expert services of a person having the experience and specialized knowledge in the product development field in assisting and advising the Company to build the product; and
WHEREAS, the Consultant has the requisite expertise, specialized knowledge and experience in the product development field and has offered his services to the Company on a principal to principal basis; and
WHEREAS, the Consultant and the Company with to evidence by this agreement the manner in which the relationship will exist and the said confidential and proprietary material will be treated; and

NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows: 

1.	APPOINTMENT

1.1.	The Company hereby appoints the Consultant to render Consultancy Services and the Consultant hereby accepts the same upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.

1.2.	The services will be rendered by the Consultant to the Company in product development in accordance with the directions and requirements of the Company. 

1.3.	The Consultant shall devote his attention and energy to rendering the services under this Agreement in accordance with the directions of the Company.

2.	TERM

The services to be provided under this Agreement shall be for a period of minimum 20 days commencing with effect from 17th of September, 2018 and shall continue in force up to 19th of October, 2018, unless a notice of termination is given by either party as per clause 5 hereunder. 

3.	CONSULTANT’S SERVICES, DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS (“SERVICES”) 

3.1.	“Services” shall mean the obligations, duties and services to be provided by Consultant under this Agreement as described in an attached Statement of Work in Annexure A which is attached hereto and made part of this Agreement. 
3.2.	The Consultant will perform the “Services” in accordance with the procedures described in the Statement of Work, in a timely and professional manner, consistent with industry standards, at a location, place and time that the Consultant deems appropriate, and all in accordance with the Statement of Work, and this Agreement. The manner and means the Consultant chooses to perform the Services are in the Consultant’s sole discretion and control. In providing the Services, the Consultant agrees to provide its own equipment, tools and other materials at its own expense.   

3.3.	The Consultant, in consultation with the Company, will determine the method, details and means of performing the work to be carried out for company. In addition, the Company shall be entitled to exercise a broad general power of supervision and control over the results of the work, consistent with industry standards, performed by the Consultant to ensure satisfactory performance. This power of supervision shall include the right to inspect, stop work, make suggestions or recommendations as to the details of the work, and request modifications to the Statement of Work on weekly basis. The Company agrees that if the performance by the Consultant is not satisfactory, the Company has to exercise the right to stop the work and discuss the changes required with the Consultant, in written, within three days of the work. The Company will have no power to label the performance of the Consultant on a particular day as unsatisfactory after three days from the day of work or performance. The Company Modifications to the scope of the Statement of Work by the Company resulting in additional services by the Consultant shall be compensated accordingly.

4.	FEES/EXPENSES

4.1.	In consideration of the services to be rendered, the Consultant shall receive consultation fees of INR ????? (Rupees ????? only) for the term of the Agreement for the TERM PERIOD of consultancy. Post this period, the Consultant shall receive consultation fees of INR ????? (Rupees ????? only) per day or INR ????? (Rupees ????? only) per hour, whichever is lower. The Company will also reimburse the Consultant reasonable out of pocket expenses for travel, communication etc. incurred for carrying on the services specifies in this Agreement, upon submission of claims in accordance with the Company’s standard policies.

4.2.	All payments shall be subject to deduction of tax at source and any other taxes as in accordance with Indian law. Consultant must submit details of PAN (Permanent Account Number). 
4.3.	The Company has given the Consultant two postdated cheques in the name of the Consultant: NAME OF CONSULTANT, with following details:
•	Cheque No. ______________ amounting to INR ????? (Rupees ????? only) dated DD MONTH YYYY (DD/MM/YYYY)
 
4.4.	For any extra charges, the Company shall make payments to the Consultant within 3 (Three) working days from the 30th (THIRTIETH) day of each month by cheque or direct debit to Consultant’s bank account.

4.5.	The Company agrees that should any payment of interest or principal and interest due hereunder be received by the Consultant more than ten (10) days after its due date, the Company shall pay a late payment penalty equal to five percent (5%) of the amount overdue for each month outstanding until paid, beginning with the due date of the late payment.

5.	TERMINATION

5.1.	Either party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by giving written notice of termination to the other by registered post on the address given hereinabove. The Agreement shall terminate on the next day after such notice of termination.  

5.2.	The Consultant shall return all documents including papers, memoranda, notes, programs, data and all copies thereof including any electronic record containing any business and technical information disclosed to the Consultant by the Company or in any manner procured, received by the Consultant during his term of appointment with the Company.  

5.3.	If the Company terminates this Agreement before the completion of the first 20 days of consultancy, the Consultant shall receive consultation fees of INR INR ????? (Rupees ????? only) per day for the term of Agreement from __________ to the last date of consultancy or INR ????? (Rupees ????? only), whichever is lower.

5.4.	Upon the termination of this Agreement for any reason whatsoever all amounts due and payable to the Consultant shall be paid within 7 (seven) days from the date of termination of this Agreement. Any further delay will be subject to the clause 4.5 mentioned above. 
6.	CONFIDENTIALITY

The Consultant shall keep confidential all confidential information provided to him by the Company excepting only such information as is already generally known to the public and that he shall not release use or disclose of the same except with the prior written permission of the Company or if required by law or an order from court. However, the Consultant will be entitled to divulge the information to those who are directly concerned or as may be necessary in order to obtain certain information necessary for the performance of his obligations.
 
The Company shall keep confidential all confidential information provided to the Company or its employees, by the Consultant excepting only such information as is already generally known to the public and that he shall not release use or disclose of the same except with the prior written permission of the Consultant or if required by law or an order from court. 

7.	INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

7.1.	During the course of performing the service, the Consultant may, in conjunction with the Company, develop information, product work product, or achieve other results for the Company in connection with the services it performs for the Company.

7.2.	The Consultant agrees that such information, work product, and other results, systems and information developed by the Consultant and/or the Company with such Services, which are not Open Source, (hereinafter referred to collectively as the “Work Product”) shall be the property of the First Client. The work product information, work product, and other results, systems and information developed by the Consultant and/or the Company with such Services, which are Open Source, will be governed by its own License and neither of the Consultant, the Company and the First Client will have any right over it.

7.3.	The Consultant shall have each and all moral rights relating to Work Product including but not limited to, all rights of approval, restriction or limitation on use.

7.4.	The Consultant agrees to waive of following rights relating to Work Product: all rights to subsequent modifications. 
7.5.	The Company agrees that the Work Product developed by the Consultant is licensed for one time use of the First Client and will not sell or use the Work Product in any form, which includes, but is not limited to, modified Work Product, a part of Work Product or any derivative Work Product again, for any purpose, which includes but is not limited to, product, service, platform, for any entity, which includes but is not limited to, the Company, the First Client and any future Clients, without a prior written consent for the Consultant.

7.6.	The Company agrees that the Work Product will contain the attribution of the Consultant in the form, which includes, but is not limited to, comments.

7.7.	In future, if the Work Product is made Open Source by either the Company or the First Client or any 3rd Party, the Company and the First Client shall automatically surrender all copyright and of the Work Product to the Consultant and the Work Product will be automatically deemed as the Intellectual Property of the Consultant.

7.8.	The Company also agrees to protect the interest of the Consultant and ensure that all clauses mentioned in this agreement or any attached agreement is communicated and respected by the First Client. The Company also agrees that the Company will be responsible for the actions of the First Client.

7.9.	Both the Company and the Consultant agrees to use reasonable care to safeguard the Proprietary Information and to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure thereof.

8.	IN JUNCTIVE RELEIF

The Consultant acknowledges that the use or disclosure of the Work Product in a manner inconsistent with this agreement will cause the Company irreparable damage, and that Company shall have the right to equitable and injunctive relief in any court of competent jurisdiction to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure, and to such damages as are occasioned by such unauthorized use or disclosure.

The Company acknowledges that the use or disclosure of the Work Product in a manner inconsistent with this agreement will cause the Consultant irreparable damage, and that the Consultant shall have the right to equitable and injunctive relief in any court of competent jurisdiction to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure, and to such damages as are occasioned by such unauthorized use or disclosure.
 
9.	RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND THE CONSULTANT. 

The Consultant is an independent contractor and is not an agent or employee of the Company and is not authorized to act on behalf of the Company. While the Company is entitled to provide the Consultant with general guidance to assist the Consultant in competing the Services to the Company’s satisfaction, nevertheless the Consultant is ultimately responsible for directing and controlling the performance of the task comprising the Statement of Work, in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 

10.	DISPUTE/RESOLUTIONS 

Any disputes difference, controversy arising relating to the interpretation of this Agreement shall be settled by arbitration in the accordance with the rules of conciliation and arbitration of India. The place of arbitration shall be Uttar Pradesh, India and conducted in English.  

11.	JURISDICTION AND APPLICABLE LAW  

This Agreement and any services rendered hereunder are subject to all the applicable laws and regulations of India and the rights and obligations of the parties hereto under or in connection with this Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of India.  

Both the Company and the Consultant acknowledge that they have read this Agreement, understand it and agree to be bound by its terms and further agree that this Agreement is the complete and exclusive statement of the agreement between the Company & Consultant with respect to the subject matter hereof, which supersedes all proposals, and all other communications. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as of the day first written above

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement as of the day first written above.

1.	Name:     __________________________
  /o:         __________________________
Address: __________________________

2.	Name: __________________________
  /o:    __________________________
Address: __________________________



___________________________

Date:

For _____	

_________________________

Date:

For _____

